clouds/snowflake/README.md, before:

# CARTO Analytics Toolbox for Snowflake

The Analytics Toolbox for Snowflake contains SQL functions and JavaScript libraries. The functions are deployed in a schema called `carto` inside a specific database. The JavaScript libraries are deployed inside the SQL functions. In Snowflake, the functions can be used with tables of any database in the same account.

## Tools

Make sure you have installed the following tools:

- `make`: <https://www.gnu.org/software/make/>
- `Python3`: <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3811> (v3.8.11)
- `node`: <https://www.npmjs.com/> (v14.18)
- `yarn`: <https://yarnpkg.com/> (v1.22)

## Environment variables

The `.env` file contains the variables required to deploy and run the toolbox. Replace each `<template>` with your values.

```
# Snowflake
SF_PREFIX=
SF_ACCOUNT=<account>.<region>
SF_DATABASE=<database>
SF_USER=<user>
SF_PASSWORD=<password>
SF_ROLE=<role>  # optional
SF_SHARE=<share>  # optional
```

## Structure

- `common`
- `libraries`
  - `javascript`: JavaScript library
    - `libs`: contains the JavaScript module-specific code
    - `src`: contains the JavaScript source code
    - `test`: contains the library tests
- `modules`
  - `doc`: contains the functions' documentation
  - `sql`: contains the functions' SQL code
  - `test`: contains the functions' tests

## Make commands

- `make help`: shows the commands available in the Makefile
- `make lint`: runs a linter (eslint) and fixes the trivial issues
- `make build`: builds the final SQL scripts and libraries (JS)
- `make deploy`: builds the JS libraries and SQL scripts and deploys in the Snowflake database
- `make test`: runs the library tests locally and the modules tests with the Snowflake database (jest)
- `make remove`: removes the SQL scripts from the Snowflake database
- `make clean`: cleans the installed dependencies and generated files locally
- `make create-package`: creates the installation package in the dist folder (zip)

Make commands can be run also inside `libraries/javascript` and `modules` folders, or be called like `make lint-libraries`, `make deploy-modules`.

**Filtering**

Commands `build-libraries`, `build-modules`, `deploy-modules`, `test-libraries`, `test-modules` and `create-package` can be filtered by the following. All the filters are additive:

- `diff`: list of changed files
- `modules`: list of modules to filter
- `functions`: list of functions to filter

Example:

```
make build-libraries diff=modules/sql/quadbin/QUADBIN_BBOX.sql
make build-modules diff=modules/sql/quadbin/QUADBIN_RESOLUTION.sql
make deploy-modules modules=quadbin,constructors
make test-modules functions=ST_MAKEENVELOPE
make create-package modules=quadbin
```

Command `test-libraries` can be also filtered by setting the `test` variable with a path of the test file. It supports passing the name of the test. Note that `build-libraries` will rebuild the libraries to make them suitable for testing.

Example:

```
make test-libraries modules=constructors test=constructors.test.js
make test-libraries functions=ST_BUFFER test="transformations_buffer.test.js -t buffer"
```

Additionally, `nodeps=1` filter can be passed to skip building and including the dependencies. It can be used to speed up re-deployments during development.

Commit message:

Add testall param in bq, sf

clouds/snowflake/README.md, after:

# CARTO Analytics Toolbox for Snowflake

The Analytics Toolbox for Snowflake contains SQL functions and JavaScript libraries. The functions are deployed in a schema called `carto` inside a specific database. The JavaScript libraries are deployed inside the SQL functions. In Snowflake, the functions can be used with tables of any database in the same account.

## Tools

Make sure you have installed the following tools:

- `make`: <https://www.gnu.org/software/make/>
- `Python3`: <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3811> (v3.8.11)
- `node`: <https://www.npmjs.com/> (v14.18)
- `yarn`: <https://yarnpkg.com/> (v1.22)

## Environment variables

The `.env` file contains the variables required to deploy and run the toolbox. Replace each `<template>` with your values.

```
# Snowflake
SF_PREFIX=
SF_ACCOUNT=<account>.<region>
SF_DATABASE=<database>
SF_USER=<user>
SF_PASSWORD=<password>
SF_ROLE=<role>  # optional
SF_SHARE=<share>  # optional
```

## Structure

- `common`
- `libraries`
  - `javascript`: JavaScript library
    - `libs`: contains the JavaScript module-specific code
    - `src`: contains the JavaScript source code
    - `test`: contains the library tests
- `modules`
  - `doc`: contains the functions' documentation
  - `sql`: contains the functions' SQL code
  - `test`: contains the functions' tests

## Make commands

- `make help`: shows the commands available in the Makefile
- `make lint`: runs a linter (eslint) and fixes the trivial issues
- `make build`: builds the final SQL scripts and libraries (JS)
- `make deploy`: builds the JS libraries and SQL scripts and deploys in the Snowflake database
- `make test`: runs the library tests locally and the modules tests with the Snowflake database (jest)
- `make remove`: removes the SQL scripts from the Snowflake database
- `make clean`: cleans the installed dependencies and generated files locally
- `make create-package`: creates the installation package in the dist folder (zip)

Make commands can be run also inside `libraries/javascript` and `modules` folders, or be called like `make lint-libraries`, `make deploy-modules`.

**Filtering**

Commands `build-libraries`, `build-modules`, `deploy-modules`, `test-libraries`, `test-modules` and `create-package` can be filtered by the following. All the filters are additive:

- `diff`: list of changed files
- `modules`: list of modules to filter
- `functions`: list of functions to filter

Example:

```
make build-libraries diff=modules/sql/quadbin/QUADBIN_BBOX.sql
make build-modules diff=modules/sql/quadbin/QUADBIN_RESOLUTION.sql
make deploy-modules modules=quadbin,constructors
make test-modules functions=ST_MAKEENVELOPE
make create-package modules=quadbin
```

Command `test-libraries` can be also filtered by setting the `test` variable with a path of the test file. It supports passing the name of the test. Note that `build-libraries` will rebuild the libraries to make them suitable for testing.

Example:

```
make test-libraries modules=constructors test=constructors.test.js
make test-libraries functions=ST_BUFFER test="transformations_buffer.test.js -t buffer"
```

The parameter `nodeps=1` filter can be passed to skip building and including the dependencies. It can be used to speed up re-deployments during development.

The parameter `testall=1` allows running all the tests even with fails. By default, it exits the test suite immediately upon one failing test suite.
