clouds/bigquery/modules/doc/h3/H3_POLYFILL_MODE.md, before:

## H3_POLYFILL_MODE

```sql:signature
H3_POLYFILL_MODE(geog, resolution, mode)
```

**Description**

Returns an array of H3 cell indexes that intersect with the given geography at a given level of detail. This function is similar to [`H3_POLYFILL`](h3#h3_polyfill), but allows more control on how H3 cells are computed. It can operates on three modes: intersects, contains, center.

* `geog`: `GEOGRAPHY` representing the area to cover.
* `resolution`: `INT64` level of detail. The value must be between 0 and 15 ([H3 resolution table](https://h3geo.org/docs/core-library/restable)).
* `mode`: `STRING`
  * `intersects` (default) returns the indexes of the H3 cells that intersect the input geography. The resulting H3 set will completely cover the input geography (point, line, polygon). This mode is the one used in [`H3_POLYFILL`](h3#h3_polyfill).
  * `contains` returns the indexes of the H3 cells that are entirely contained inside the input geography (polygon). This mode is not compatible with points or lines.
  * `center` returns the indexes of the H3 cells which centers intersect the input geography (polygon). The resulting H3 set does not fully cover the input geography, however this is significantly faster that the other modes. This mode is not compatible with points or lines.

Mode `intersects`:

![intersects](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_intersects.png)

Mode `contains`:

![contains](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_contains.png)

Mode `center`:

![center](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_center.png)

**Return type**

`ARRAY<STRING>`

**Examples**

```sql
SELECT carto.H3_POLYFILL_MODE(
  ST_GEOGFROMTEXT('POLYGON ((-3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865, -3.7144088745117 40.40965661286395, -3.70659828186035 40.409525904775634, -3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865))'),
  9, 'center'
);
-- [89390cb1b4bffff]
```

```sql
SELECT h3
FROM UNNEST(carto.H3_POLYFILL_MODE(
  ST_GEOGFROMTEXT('POLYGON ((-3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865, -3.7144088745117 40.40965661286395, -3.70659828186035 40.409525904775634, -3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865))'),
  9, 'center'
)) AS h3;
-- 89390cb1b4bffff
```

Commit message:

Set center as default mode in polyfill bigquery

clouds/bigquery/modules/doc/h3/H3_POLYFILL_MODE.md, after:

## H3_POLYFILL_MODE

```sql:signature
H3_POLYFILL_MODE(geog, resolution, mode)
```

**Description**

Returns an array of quadbin cell indexes contained in the given geography at a given level of detail. Containment is determined by the mode: center, intersects, contains.

* `geog`: `GEOGRAPHY` representing the area to cover.
* `resolution`: `INT64` level of detail. The value must be between 0 and 15 ([H3 resolution table](https://h3geo.org/docs/core-library/restable)).
* `mode`: `STRING`
  * `center` returns the indexes of the H3 cells which centers intersect the input geography (polygon). The resulting H3 set does not fully cover the input geography, however this is **significantly faster** that the other modes. This mode is not compatible with points or lines. Equivalent to [`H3_POLYFILL`](h3#h3_polyfill).
  * `intersects` returns the indexes of the H3 cells that intersect the input geography. The resulting H3 set will completely cover the input geography (point, line, polygon).
  * `contains` returns the indexes of the H3 cells that are entirely contained inside the input geography (polygon). This mode is not compatible with points or lines.

Mode `center`:

![center](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_center.png)

Mode `intersects`:

![intersects](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_intersects.png)

Mode `contains`:

![contains](./images/H3_POLYFILL_MODE_contains.png)

**Return type**

`ARRAY<STRING>`

**Examples**

```sql
SELECT carto.H3_POLYFILL_MODE(
  ST_GEOGFROMTEXT('POLYGON ((-3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865, -3.7144088745117 40.40965661286395, -3.70659828186035 40.409525904775634, -3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865))'),
  9, 'intersects'
);
-- [89390cb1b5bffff, 89390ca34b3ffff, 89390ca3487ffff, 89390ca3497ffff, 89390cb1b4bffff, 89390cb1b4fffff]
```

```sql
SELECT h3
FROM UNNEST(carto.H3_POLYFILL_MODE(
  ST_GEOGFROMTEXT('POLYGON ((-3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865, -3.7144088745117 40.40965661286395, -3.70659828186035 40.409525904775634, -3.71219873428345 40.413365349070865))'),
  9, 'intersects'
)) AS h3;
-- 89390cb1b5bffff
-- 89390ca34b3ffff
-- 89390ca3487ffff
-- 89390ca3497ffff
-- 89390cb1b4bffff
-- 89390cb1b4fffff
```
